description.tutorial_0=Their coming was a predictable surprise to everyone. Fortunately for the people of Ludus, the Skygods' thirst for death was initially small and thus the first battle seemed to be pretty lazy and noncommittal compared to what was to come.
description.tutorial_1=Skygods had this weird tendency to pretend the whole “Hey, let’s pit man against terror beast” business was a part of  some off-the-cuff system that actually made sense. How else to explain the bonfires and people situated around them as if they were just ambushed by the monsters?  Camaraderie?   Nah.
description.tutorial_2=Jack was taking care of his farm animals when Skygods came, big surprise,  from the sky and snatched him and his friend, Gary. "Traps. My grandpa was a trapper!" boomed a voice from above when the duo was hurled down onto the corner of a really cold island.
description.tutorial_3=No one really knew where the giant, disembodied brains came from. Granted, there were some pretty huge terror beasts out there, but none was even close to the sheer enormity required to produce a brain the size of a horse. One thing was sure - Jack had to hurry!
description.tutorial_4=It's never funny when you have claustrophobia and an omnipotent being throws you into a very tiny room.  Okay, it might be a little funny. On the other hand, it's easier to put things in the perspective when this keeps you safe from the rage of two very mushy shrooms.  Ain’t no rage like mushy shroom rage.  That’s a saying, right?  Either way, just remember the Skygods' words: "Let thy friendeth die and thou shallth end up a broken twig. Or whatever."
description.tutorial_5=Skygods had a knack for breaking families.  Minty the Fresh Minotaur was an adopted son of the famous archer, Archeredes who found him when he was just a little cow.  As Minty grew up, he became big and muscular and chopped wood like a champion.  During this whole Skygod nonsense, Minty was doing a pretty stellar job pretending all these pesky archers were logs, but now they’d erected some mobile wall contraption thingy and put his father behind it!  Well that’s just great.  Thanks Skygods.  Thanks.
description.tutorial_6=Jack already had had enough. He had to kill his friend and now Skygods just said a word and, 'lo and behold, he can run faster! Did anyone ask for his opinion on the matter? No. He considered accusing them of being egotistic, but with all the maiming and killing  going on no one would probably notice his dissatisfaction with what he was going through.  The Skygods really needed a suggestion box!
description.tutorial_7=A tiny army of Goos was deployed on the island cut by numerous rivers. Because of the high altitude they melted a little (Don’t you physics me, they are, like, monsters and stuff okay?) and stuck to the surface. It annoyed Skygods a lot, so they procured a brain to be the target and snatched Poor Dissatisfied Jack to clear the mess, taking the recently granted super-speed away from him.  Jerks.

description.human_0=As it's been well known for generations, there was no better way to start a war than to coop up six people (or four slimes and two humans) on a tiny island.  That’s just math. This would show everyone that Skygods meant business and things were finally getting serious.
description.human_1=Skygods sometimes fought each other. "OMG what is this? Don't you have even a hint of originality?" a booming shout ripped the sky open. "This is so similar to your last map thing, it's not even funny!" The same voice added and was quickly followed by a different one "Oh shut up, noob. I know what I am doing."
description.human_2=It was written in ancient annals that when Skygods do something twice they must do it the third time, too. A survivor of a previous invasion recalled, "I had to fight my friend, Slimey. When I won that, they pitched me against his siblings! And after that? THE PARENTS!"  It’s nice to have things you can count on.
description.human_3=Skygods sometimes tried to repeat the same battles, just to see if they can turn out different.  That’s called science!  Or madness.  Something. It didn't work out exactly right that one time. A sudden cough interrupted the transportation of a soldier who ended up falling into the ocean and immediately catching pneumonia. If one good thing can be said about Skygods it's that they never let sick people fight, that'd be inhumane.  Maybe they do have a suggestion box!
description.human_4=Shrooms were the most interesting species inhabiting Ludus. Not because they were slow and tough. Not because they could drink a bucket of alcohol without getting inebriated. No. What made them so special were their edible hats that produce enough nutritional value to feed two humans and a quarter of a minotaur indefinitely. Knowing this shed some light on why Skygods arranged that battle the way they did.
description.human_5=An old story has it that the first invasion by Skygods ever was actually a tea party. They all sat on the grass, Ludus people on one side and the invaders on the other drinking brewed leaves from fancy cups. Skygods really love to mock this "fanfiction" (that's what they call it), so they replaced the fancy cups and doilies with weapons and sharp fangs and told the party participants to fight each other.  It’s really not that different.
description.human_6=The words "What in the name of Cthulhu is this? Did you make this while tripping, Steve?" seemed to be a magic incantation for Skygods, because a crack of  thunder immediately illuminated the sky. But what got the attention of the combatants was the strange word. Tripping. When they are not oppressing Ludus are they just simply on a holiday leave?
description.human_7=The ability to fly is what makes Gargoyles the best courier ever. They never have to wait for a carriage which involved feeding horses when they get hungry in the middle of the street, they just fly into the sky, straight for their destination. Little did they know that their abilities would one day find another, bloodier use.
description.human_8=Big empty rooms were a common theme. It was believed it was a proof that Skygods operate on an entirely different level of intellect. Especially after one brave gargoyle asked them about it. He received a cryptic response "I ain't no architect dawg, m'kay?" which made his body vibrate so hard it turned into dust.  It was really weird and uncomfortable to see.
description.human_9=When they came for Ren to pitch him against local Shroom gang, a monotonous voice chanted what seemed to be a prayer "He was a cop and talked about another cop. They tried to kill him but got his girl. Framed for murder, now he walks the badlands, a bounty hunter... a RENegade." But to whom would the Skygods utter such a beautiful prayer?
description.human_10=Skygods had a strange fascination with the number four. It was seen in the design of the islands which always had four edges, as well as the tiles which divided them (which also had four edges). Often there were four corners on an island, each four tiles wide. The final proof, though, is a strange spell they often chant "Four flock's sake!"
description.human_11=Contrary to what one could infer from the islands, there were no spiders on Ludus. The combatants had absolutely no idea what those webs were and what they did, which explained why they were so eager to get stuck in them.  It did look pretty fun. The annals confirmed that the webs were present in every invasion, even the tea-party one, which made some annalists consider them an important symbol in Skygod's culture. Maybe a sign of superiority?
description.human_12=The people of Ludus really liked zoos. The wild animals were really savage which made them very entertaining to watch. They held them in big, open, humane, spaces so that they could simulate their natural environment as much as possible and make them comfortable. That's why they did not understand what Skygods meant when they told them it's time to play zoo - these small, enclosed rooms had nothing in common with what they remembered from their weekend trips.
description.human_13=There was a reason why Skygods were so eager to use minotaurs and shrooms together. One of the main elements of the food industry on Ludus were cap factories, where hundreds of shrooms were hired and trained to grow their caps as fast as possible. It took a week of growing before a veteran minotaur cap-cutter would use a ten-feet axe to cut it off.  Don’t worry.  The shrooms enjoyed the process.  Like getting a haircut! All this made the two races work together really well. Fortunately, Skygods didn't care enough to actually choose folks who worked in the industry.
description.human_14=Bridge making used to be a popular pastime on Ludus.  No really! Bridge making can be a lot of fun! Try it! The archers in particular with their handiness with stone and desire for useful vantage points made some impressive bridges. Their works were true masterpieces. Things changed during one of Skygods' invasions when they outlawed bridges. They announced that the next time they see one the friendly sparrings will be no more and a true bloodbath will begin. Suffice to say, no one ever built a bridge again and everyone is still very stressed when they have to walk across one on the battlefields.
description.human_15=There was an ancient saying - Yes, I know, there are a lot of ancient sayings - that the clear sign of sanity is repeating a different thing and expecting the same results. No one really knew if Skygods had sayings in the dimensions they came from, but if they did, it was obvious that this was one of them. How else to explain the fact, that they often repeated the same combat with a minuscule change yet expected the same result? And why was it that they were always right?
description.human_16=There weren't that many lakes on Ludus. Sure, they had a good number of enormous lakes which reached the horizon but anything smaller than that was a rarity. It was theorized that the long-extinct race of gelatinous cubes caused this. They loved large bodies of water and thanks to their osmosis abilities they were able to move liquids around very quickly and very easily. If not for all the fighting, the combatants would spend their time getting excited by the numerous tiny lakes present on majority of the islands.
description.human_17=Skygods often employed ice to make the combat more interesting. The interesting thing is they most likely never cared about the different capabilities of ice, like being slippery or cold, because their ice simply didn't work that way. After many invasions and tens of years spent studying pieces of the ice stolen from the islands, the Ludusian scientists have concluded that it's only for the aesthetic effect. They know that for sure because they discovered the Skygods' ice is just a regular soil that looks different. It is most definitely not a byproduct of lazy developers who don’t have any ideas but have one heck of graphics guy, nope.
description.human_18="You can't make a level with nothing but traps!" the Skygod's shout was so loud and powerful that a whole city was leveled by this exclamation. "Oh, yeah? Well challenge accepted, sucka'," said another, less harsh voice. It was soft enough to not kill a group of five knights with its sheer force, but it was a close thing.  Some pants maybe needed changed. Unfortunately a few seconds later they were captured and thrown onto an island with nothing but traps on it and no spare pants anywhere. The annals spoke of this event as the turning point in learning Skygods' mystical language and henceforth the islands were always secretly called levels by Ludusians.
description.human_19="Hello. I'd like to take a moment to tell you that it is really inhumane to kill all those poor terror beasts. You should be ashamed of yourself. You just sit there, leading the humans to victory and not even giving those monsters a chance. I feel sick thinking about it. Now be a good person and lead the Monster army for a change! Let the beasts taste the victory and the blood of their enemies! I WANT YOU TO BATHE IN [text scribbled over] YOU! I told you to write everything I say or else the whole dozen of you will end on the battlefield! Very well then, you made your own choi---" the text ends as if the person holding the pen was forcibly pulled away from the book.

description.human_hard_0=People of Ludus knew little about their world's shape and geography. The savage wildlife made the exploration almost impossible so they colonized only a tiny fraction of the main continent along with a couple islands. That was the reason why "Melting their polar caps" was not the best threat Skygods could make.
description.human_hard_1=One time the Skygods kidnapped a group of humans and shrooms and put them on an island above the ocean.  I mean, yes, most islands are above the ocean, but this had like cliffs and stuff, oh yeah, floated.! They didn't want to fight so they jumped head first into the water and tried to swim away, only to be captured by Skygods and brought back to the island after which... they jumped again. They repeated this routine a couple of times until the Skygods just moved the island above the land. From then on no battle ever took place above a big body of water again.
description.human_hard_2=Not much is known about how slimes came to be. The most popular theory is that they are the evolution of the sewage system in a big Ludusian city. Apparently an army of slimes crawled out of the pipes one day, asserted their domination over all that is trash and started to eat away. Since then pollution was never a problem.  Hooray slimes!
description.human_hard_3=On Ludus, there is a legend about a minotaur. It said that long time ago, even before the first invasion, a minotaur living in the mountains built a labyrinth to keep himself safe from the wildlife. Unfortunately, he dug so deep that he got lost in his own construction. A group of shrooms and humans from the nearby village got concerned about their friend who hadn't visited them in a long time and left to rescue him. Apparently Skygods really loved to mock this legend.
description.human_hard_4=It was pretty rare for Skygods to assemble such a great number of people for a single battle. No one really knew why, though. If their objective was bloodshed, having more combatants would make things much more bloody. The only logical assumption was that there had to be a different reason.  Some postulated that the Skygods wanted to draw out the bloodshed, savor it, others figured that there was internal strife within the Skygods, where some wanted to show mercy.  However,once, on a margin of a book, an annalist found someone scribbled a single phrase: "logical-tactical game" in connection to a great battle from ages ago but no one was able to decipher what this secret code could possibly mean.
description.human_hard_5=Just like the ice islands weren't cold, the lava ones weren't hot either. The color of the ground was caused by soil rich in nutrients and the bubbling lava effect was caused by bacteria producing huge amounts of colorful gasses. Which is all for the better, because manticores with their fur would overheat and faint due to the high temperature, the poor dears.
description.human_hard_6=One of the many unknowns was why Skygods even bothered with producing the ice and lava islands, considering the difference was only aesthetical. The most widely accepted explanation was that they get bored easily, and the different variants were there to keep their attention on the islands.
description.human_hard_7=It was a surprise to many people in Ludus how with each battle they became better tacticians, learning their own weaknesses and strengths and how to use them against their opponents. Considering how war and army were outlawed, that had the saddening effect of making those who survived hate themselves as freaks who go against the law.  Those Skygods really knew how to mess with your head!  It’s almost like they just didn’t care.
description.human_hard_8=Jack (the same one who was an experiment in movement-acceleration magic way back at the beginning of the invasion) thought it was over for him. He took a part in countless battles and managed to survive. Imagine his surprise when Skygods came for him, turned his clothes in king's apparel and screwed the bottoms of his massive shoes to the ground so that he wouldn't move because, well, Skygods are pretty hard to understand sometimes. While standing there, furious, he began to compose his official complaint letter, although he wasn't sure who should be the recipient.
description.human_hard_9=Spirals were one of those things that Skygods liked to use at least a few times per invasion. It was obvious to the people of Ludus why - spirals symbolized the shells of zneils, one of the most ferocious and dangerous animals that inhabited their world. They were 5-meters-tall monstrosities with hundreds of spiked tentacles covered in an acid strong enough to burn through metal that regrow faster than you can cut them off. Fortunately for the peaceful folk, most zneils live on a secluded island far away into the ocean.  I bet they’re super lonely.  Aw!
description.human_hard_10=People of Ludus loved water. Not because most of them lived near the ocean, no. The waters of Ludus, contrary to the land, are extremely safe. The worst predator living underwater is the gluefish which sticks to your body and makes it harder to swim and only ever eats you once your dead body starts to decompose.  And, honestly, gluefish are kinda cute. Everyone gets really happy when they noticed a gluefish just chilling on their arm or wherever.  The water is pretty darn great.
description.human_hard_11=No one ever managed to understand why Skygods liked to dress up humans as kings. They never played funny games with the terror beasts - when they needed a leader for their army they just magically conjured a sizeable brain. Some see it as a proof of some kind of relation between Skygods and the race of humans, but most just think the Skygods are beings of infinite mystery and trying to plumb their complexities will only lead to more bloody battles
description.human_hard_12=Because of the long period between each Skygods' invasion there weren't many veterans who fought in more than one "war". The only exception were shrooms that can live thousands of years, although almost all of them when faced with the prospect of living through another invasion just decide to wither away and move on to the next stage of their lives.  Which happens to be pretty much exactly the same as the previous stage since they’ll just grow back.  They are just fancy mushrooms after all, but shrooms take great pride in this ‘transition.’  Whatever, shrooms, whatever.
description.human_hard_13=Gargoyles had fascinating backstory - the first mention about them in the annals happens somewhere in the middle of the history. They were not introduced there, though. They were written in as if they were always part of the land. Many theories exist: migratory patterns, cultural significances during a particularly flighty era, but most probably, something something something Skygods.
description.human_hard_14=The annals spoke on only one occasion about anyone ever trying to defeat a zneil. It was a group of brave adventurers, way back before the first invasion happened. An axe-wielding minotaur, a knight in heavy armor, a nimble archer and mystical shroom all left to defeat the beast. Their story is painfully short - they all were devoured by an angry zneil about five seconds after embarking on their holy crusade, but hey, go them for trying.
description.human_hard_15=Shrooms didn't make the best generals.  General shroom tactics include “get spores everywhere” which isn’t super creative, let’s face it.  Skygods, however, found this funny and liked to abuse irony by making them the leaders of small guerilla groups. If it was even possible to carry guerilla operations against a group of two soldiers by four slimes and a shroom, the proportions weren't exactly right.  There’s that pesky math again. However, this didn't stop anyone from abiding by their will, as no one wanted to by Sky-peopled to death.  No one.
description.human_hard_16=As an experiment and as an insurance from extinction, monsters once tried to face the invasions wearing heavy armor, similar to the ones used by knights. The results were less than satisfying. Slow shrooms, the adjective here emphasizing the point, since shrooms aren’t really all about moving super fast, were almost unable to move due to the weight. Slimes were so weak that they just seeped through the armor, which was pretty gross. Gargoyles coudn't fly, manticores felt too itchy and minotaurs have written an official complaint about their ability to swing axes with a full and proper range of motion.  Minotaurs appreciate good form like no other.
description.human_hard_17=Skygods were sometimes...okay, most of the time, simply unfair. An army against an army is a tough predicament, but an army surrounded by another? The infamous Battle of No Surrender was an example of this. Only the great wit of the humans' leader and tactical usage of the units has allowed some of them to endure and be victorious. Not that it mattered since during the invasions there was only one winner ever - Skygods.
description.human_hard_18=Mobile walls were one of the earliest discoveries made on Ludus. Even before they knew fire or wheel they used gargantuan blocks of forged steel moving on squares to separate themselves from the savage wild life. It was unknown how they managed to forge steel or even write annals before discovering fire, but the wisest scientist were working on figuring this slight discrepancy out.
description.human_hard_19="You misunderstand us! It was never about anyone getting hurt. We did all of this only to help you have some fun, add some excitement to your boring lives. You know, friendly sparring? Bonding by fighting? Coach you for better tomorrow?  I don’t know, some pedantic self-worth character-building something-or-other!  Honest! We never wanted you to kill each other - it is you who grabbed all those weapons and sharpened all those claws and used them to spread violence. It's actually us who is hurt the most by what you do. We don't want to come here, it is your bloodlust that forces our comings! YOU are the brains that control us, your hands, to do evil!" - quoted from prelection "Controlling minds without Skygodded mind control" from Goduary X000.

description.monster_0=While the lack of spiders explained why people of Ludus were so eager to step on the web traps (it was so much fun!), there was no clear explanation why one side of each conflict was always completely unaware of other hazards. It must've been Skygods magic or a poor public education system.  One of the two.
description.monster_1=Pikemen, despite their extensive training in pike vaulting were not able to use their jumping abilities on the battlefield. Not because they were afraid. Not because of magic which made them forget this ability. No. The reason was Skygods kindly asked them not to do that unless they want the whole world to be hurled into the sun.
description.monster_2=For years dictionaries published on Ludus had a single definition for the zoo - the usual gigantic area with wildlife. But Skygods kept mocking them by calling a tiny enclosed spaces zoos, so to fight this problem smartly, publishers added the second definition, hoping Skygods would no longer find it amusing.  Naturally, this wasn’t a good idea.  Perhaps the Skygods thought they were being mocked.  Whatever the reason, they went right ahead and made sure the tiny islands were at their tiniest during future invasions, and plenty of them to boot.
description.monster_3=Repeating the same combat with a slight change was the norm for Skygods. More often than not it resulted in the combatants doing exactly the same things as before. But sometimes, the new battle required the use of completely different tactics in order to win.  Like dancing, or diplomacy.  Just kidding, diplomacy never works. 
description.monster_4=The meticulously written annals contained the exact maps of each and every island ever created by Skygods. By studying them, it is possible to infer many patterns. For example,small islands only ever appear at the early stages of an invasion. This coincides with an observation that tougher battles occur later - it's difficult to make a tough battle on a small area!  This ramping of difficulty coincided with some of the games the Ludusians liked to play, but surely the Skygods were far above such petty activities.
description.monster_5=Skygods' tendency of using fours did not limit itself to the architecture of the islands. A careful observer would notice that they almost exclusively chose beings which had four limbs! Not only that, one of the battles called for four monsters (two minotaurs and two gargoyles) as well as for four humans (a pikeman, an archer, a cavalry and the cavalry's horse) which gave a total of 8 beings on the battlefield! Moreover, 8 is 4 multiplied by 2 and 2 is half of 4 which meant that particular fight had four halves of four worth of units! Another proof of the magical power of four was discovered.  Half Life 4 confirmed.
description.monster_6=People of Ludus really liked islands with fake walls. This allowed them to destroy something without hurting anyone which is pretty rare considering they were there to kill each other. Skygods must have known this very well because they were very careful not to use too many fake walls in their designs and providing happiness was not really high on a Skygod’s agenda.
description.monster_7=Long ago, between the early invasions and before the war was outlawed, there was a school of fighting ranged opponents known as Derangifying School of Battle. Derangifiers -truly a great name- were experts at handling opponents like archers or pikemen and, even though the school is no more, some elderly shrooms still remember their teachings.  Skygods probably had no idea who they pitched against those poor humans.
description.monster_8=One of the worst horrors of the invasions was that Skygods very often placed monsters and humans in a position with absolutely no chance of survival. Surrounded by the enemy with no place to run to all they could do was to choose the tile which would be their end.  It wasn’t very fun.  Well, maybe for the Skygods and they’re who really count, right?
description.monster_9=Goos were not the strongest of the monsters, even if their mixing skills were legendary. They made up for it with extreme enthusiasm, the expression of endless bliss on their faces and knowledge that they can't really be killed for real with swords because even cut into tiny pieces they would reassemble in a matter of hours.
description.monster_10=Outside the battlefield slimes were the slowest intelligent creatures in Ludus.  Part of the problem was their love for waste which made them compulsively eat all trash they encounter, but,also, the fact they were, well, animated slime made it hard to move forward quickly.  That’s just physics, kids. That's probably why Skygods found it so amusing to make them faster at times.  If the Skygods were good at one thing, it was making absolutely zero sense.
description.monster_11=Monsters never used ranged weapons and there was a good reason for it. First and foremost, not counting minotaurs, there were no species of monsters with arms strong enough to draw a bow or even take a good stab with a long pike.  Also, it was a point of pride.  Ranged weapons are for cowards! The minotaurs,tried to do it-once, okay, they were experimenting, gosh - during one of the first invasions. The Skygods apparently did not like it, for they quickly twisted the weapon out of their muscular arms, scolded them for a little while, and replaced the slings and rocks with appropriately sized axes.
description.monster_12=A long time ago a very wise and very old shroom tried to negotiate with Skygods what could they possibly do for them to stop the invasion. He didn't realize two things. First, it's difficult to talk to beings whose very speech will obliterate you. Second, they answered that the only way to stop the invasion was to endure it , the utterance of which promptly blew up the shroom. No one tried to negotiate ever again.
description.monster_13=Mobile walls were one of the greatest inventions of Ludus. They made it easy to quickly and painlessly claim new land in the extremely hostile environment. First, heavily armored knights cleared the area of the savage wildlife Afterward another group moved the walls around in order to expand the safe zone. Thankfully Skygods never bothered to steal mobile walls from the surface, they always made their own.
description.monster_14=On Ludus, besides monsters and humans there were also wild animals, very savage and very dangerous. They all had very sharp claws and fangs, often venomous. Every single one of them would try to kill any human or monster on sight.  All with one exception - horses. It is unknown exactly why horses were so peaceful, but one annalist has noticed that the animals had never been mentioned in any book before the first invasion. It might be that Skygods brought horses with them!
description.monster_15=Many invasions ago there was a clan of minotaurs. They studied annals trying to find any hints of possible weaknesses Skygods could have. They trained hard to be masters of the axe. They devised a plan to kill their oppressors once and for all. It was a perfect plan with a tiny exception. When the time came and they tried to attack Skygods they realized that those gods don't really have any physical bodies. They got laughed at, and thus commenced the biggest and longest battle ever, with a thousand minotaurs fighting a lone archer - just outside the range of their weapons.
description.monster_16=Ludusians scientists have once recovered a brain from an island. They covertly threw it off the edge into a river while the island was hovering low. Freaked out, they found out the brain breathed through the pores in its "skin".  Then they attempted to cut it open to see it's internal structure, but the moment a knife penetrated its skin the brain exploded into a puff of red steam.
description.monster_17=There was a clear difference between Skygods' mobile walls and the ones produced by people of Ludus. The latter did not allow anyone or anything to cross it, while the former could be crossed by one side of the conflict, always the one who was victorious in the end. The mechanism of this crossing was unknown to Ludusians, but one thing they knew was that it involved "just kinda passing right by it or so".
description.monster_18=While it was true that there were no spiders on Ludus and that the civilized people didn't know what the web traps are, there was, in fact, a species of monsters living on a far away continent. Due to how far it was from the main continent no one knew of their existence except Skygods. They called themselves Hats'utsil-me'ex and had really long and windy beards which were as hard as spider's silk. They used it to hunt even the most fearsome animals, like zneils.
description.monster_19="Your friends are out there, about to be killed so be nice and write all I say, alright? Good. No, don't write this it's... Eh, whatever. To whoever is reading this. I hope you're having fun cutting all those poor humans to slices, but you know what? You should really take a break soon. Yea, a break, because it's unfair that so many monsters are left alive. Also, ignore what was written on the previous page about how killing monsters is bad. Nah, it was all bollocks, I say. You, where are you running away with this book? Come back here right now!"

description.monster_hard_0="So we've started this game. Good! Let's see how well they can tackle this challenge! Hmm... Not bad. How about if you have one soldier less... They still did it. What if I take one more? Oh. Wow. Amazing! Those little creatures aren't as stupid as you'd think!"
description.monster_hard_1="There is some weird stuff going on here. Humans fighting monsters? Who life in perfect peace when we're not invading? What is it, a marxist utopia? Are they going to go hug trees next like some weird hippies? Wait a second... Those shrooms are technically plants, so when they are hugged it's basically like hugging trees. What kind of sick joke of evoltuion created this place?"
description.monster_hard_2="Today I asked a more experienced 'skygod' why are we ever bothering with using this fake ice instead of getting the real one from the polar caps. So apparently there are no polar caps in Ludus. Not only that, real ice is pretty useless as the ground for a battlefield - it melts too fast, is too unstable and unpredictable, not to mention being slippery and making things messy and random. And that's when it struck me - there is nothing random in the battles!"
description.monster_hard_3="I was wrong when I wrote that there is no randomness in the battles. I paid a bit more attention to the course of the last fight and I noticed that actions of one of the armies are very easy to determine. They aren't the smartest but they act according to some very simple rules. The other army was different, the moves they made were smart. Very smart, as if a real person was guiding them and ensuring their victory. I need to investigate..."
description.monster_hard_4="My investigations haven't turned up anything of interest regarding the strange intelligence controlling one of the armies. I've uncovered something else though - Ludusians have really deep and complex history and societal rules. They not only avoid war or big conflicts but even don't fight each other. They don't steal. Or even shout. They don't even understand sarcasm!"
description.monster_hard_5="I've noticed someone made an island with scorched ground, withered grass and bubbling lava. I kinda figured out that it's the same case as with the ice - it's all fake because lava is too hot and the combatants would die way before they even had a chance to make a first move. Makes sense but I felt disappointed anyway. It feels cheap and... And as if this whole thing was just to make things more aesthetically pleasing, more varied so someone who looks at the island won't get bored so quickly. Hmm, I need to remember this thought."
description.monster_hard_6="Apparently people of Ludus live in total anarchy, have no monetary system and are divided into castes, although none has superior privileges. Each species and each caste has their own set of responsibilities for the good of the whole community. The more I think about it the more I think it's an evolutionary adaptation. The wild life in their world is really dangerous and they'd have no chance of survival if they fought each other."
description.monster_hard_7="I've prepared a spiral island and noticed they were making remarks about some weird and dangerous animal called zneil. They believe the spirals symbolize their shells and are meant to intimidate them. They're sometimes so stupid. They don't really realize it's all about aesthetics and making a good puzzle... Aesthetics and good puzzle... Why do we even make puzzles?"
description.monster_hard_8="I’ve attended a very interesting prelection today about how to use psychological trauma, intimidation, verbal threats and other Skygod tactics in order to maximize the levels of fun we all have here. I tried to use what I learnt and made a water island working under the assumption that they’ll fear drowning. I am not a smart Skygod."
description.monster_hard_9="There was this this island I saw not so long ago. I decided to rework it and make it into a harder puzzle. When I was abducting people I noticed they were in the middle of a weird ritual. At first I wanted to stop that and make them miserable, but seeing gargoyles drop heavy armored knights face first into slimes was just too fun. Apparently it’s some coming-of-age, rite-of-passage, accepting-into-knighthood ritual, so to help them celebrate they all ended up fighting for my amuesement!"
description.monster_hard_10="Oh, four flock's sake! Those humans are such idiots. They have this strange fascination with number four. They walk on the islands with great reverence, making sure to move in only four directions. They keep arguing that gargoyle's wings are not limbs because then that wouldn't make four. And now, when I made a new island for them, they started to excitedly whisper about all the fours hidden in it. Four corners, four units of each army in each corner, blah, blah, blah! Can't stand their pointless banter!"
description.monster_hard_11="I noticed something weird last night. After someone finished making an island full of water and the battle commenced I saw another Skygod looming above the battlefield with an unreadable expression on... On his... On hers... Actually I couldn't see their face! It was blurry or dark, I can't remember. But they were one of the silent types, those that move in your peripheral vision and you barely notice their presence. I felt an aura of concentration emanating from that Skygod. It must be them who’re controlling one of the armies!"
description.monster_hard_12="I realized today I find a lot of joy in making these puzzles and these islands. But sometimes those little fools can take away joy from everything! I built them a huge labyrinth filled with webs but instead of appreciating my architectural skills they were disappointed by the lack of minotaur because, you know, the ‘Minotaur Legend’. In a tantrum they devastated all the traps and only after I threw half of them over the edge they got calm."
description.monster_hard_13="I tried to make an unwinnable island. I mean unwinnable by monsters since that's who Playgods (that’s how I called those creepy Skygods who seem to control one of the armies during the battle) seem to be playing right now. But it seemed SO unfun that subconsciously I started to fiddle with the island and before I noticed the Playgod was there and the battle started. I think I’ll stick to doing what I am best at."
description.monster_hard_14="I took part in a group discussion titled ‘Skygods and their variantsl’. I feel like my horizons are so much broader now. I think I finally understand why we all are different and we all make different islands. I now know the fun is not only in all the havoc we wreck. Making the islands and crafting the puzzles is a value in itself too! We also talked a bit about Playgods but we ran out of time to properly cover this topic and we’ll get back to it next time we meet."
description.monster_hard_15="Out of all the monsters I think goos are my favorite. Their goofy faces are everything I need in the morning to smile. They are cute and completely useless in any serious conflict, although they mix the best drinks (I would know, I stole a lot of them!) But! I say they are useless but secretly I believe they can be useful, so today I’ll try to craft an island that will show off their abilities!"
description.monster_hard_16="I noticed today that people of Ludus avoid crowds. I guess their population density is not that great, especially after we thinned them a little. But nevertheless I decided to investigate and spend most of my day eavesdropping and I learnt that they believe that staying apart will make their loses smaller. Well then, let’s try to guess who’s going to get a surprise today!"
description.monster_hard_17="Gargoyles are couriers. Minotaurs are woodcutters. Slimes clean, goos make drinks, shrooms produce food. But what’s the matter with manticores? It took me a while to discover how they work for the community. They shed fur. And scales. Apparently their tails are made of tiny metal scales that are shed twice a year which then are used to produce metal armor and weapons. As for the fur it’s used for clothing. Gross. "
description.monster_hard_18="I wonder how Ludusians would react if we told them that the brains are actually made from the tissue of their dead comrades. The creation process is really funny - you first collect the remains after a battle. You need to ferment them using any of the magics at your disposal but don’t let the methane escape. Now transmogrify the tissues into an organic baloon and put the methane inside it. Lastly evolve the bacteria a little so that the surface of the brain will look like it’s breathing. Ah, the most important - convert methane into oxygen, you don’t want anything to accidentally explode!"
description.monster_hard_19="We had another group discussion meeting today and we extensively talked about Playgods. Now I understand! Everything is a lie! It’s not about us, or Ludus, or the fightings, or even the islands! The puzzles, that’s what matters! We’re here only to create content for those strange Skygods to enjoy! How will I live the rest of my life knowing this? Well… Except it isn’t. Crazy conspiracy nuts spewing their mad theories left and right. I better go and finish this island instead of wasting my time.”
